
everybody today you're going to learn
how to dispatch web hooks from your
sweet CM system inside your workflows my
name is Bastian Hammer your go-to expert
when it comes to All Things CM marketing
automation e-commerce and sales
integration okay so let's go so I assume
that you've got your sweet CM system set
up already and You' building your
processes inside your CRM and now you've
got a couple of other software systems
installed in your environment in your
business and you want to make them talk
to each other so there's like an
integration need and the integration
that you want to do here is if something
is happening in your CM system you
proactively want to inform another
system about what just happened maybe
including the data that you have in your
CM system so integration is very complex
topic and this is very key for for
making your breaking your silos inside
your business so that is your software
will talk to each other you don't have
to start copy and pasting you've got
integrated processes you've got
Integrated Systems and it just the data
flows through your your business and
everything is smooth so that's the ideal
goal that we want to follow here one
option one small part of integration
will be VB hooks check out my video on
the integration and CM systems in
general and I'm going into web hooks
there as well but now specifically I
wanted to look into web hooks when do
you use this for instance if you have a
new lead or whatever and then the new
lead came in in your CM system but now
you've got like a um like a customer
engine or maybe like a score in system
in the background and the scoring system
needs to get the information from your
CM system in order to trigger this the
lead is coming in the CRM the CRM is
triggering the web hook or dispatching
the web hook and telling the lead
scoring or the scoring engine system to
calculate and do the lead scoring
process how does it work Works via a
plug-in that I found here so uh very
simle very simple to do you need to
download the build zip file then you
need to open the module loader install
it inside the sweet CM system and then
you can use this inside your workflow so
you trigger it just like any other
workflow and the action will go into
this into a bit how to test the whole
thing so either you've got your target
system already up and running and you
see whether you're receiving data there
easily maybe um you've got like a
monitoring process there or whatever and
you you see when there details coming in
or payloads coming in or you use
something like this web hook site and it
will monitor incoming data for you so we
use this here for demo purposes or for
testing and I need to later on send my
we hook or my my dispatched payload to
this target URL here
but first things first let's go into the
admin area and install the
module module loader is here I need to
pick the file I've already downloaded it
build. zip now I upload it very
important before you do this take a
backup even if you're on your local de
environment it's just easier to to
revert and go back to before when you
have a backup and can simply restore it
usually try not to do this in a life
environment if anyhow possible so
install now install this there's the
license agreement so I go through the
license details it's licensed under the
MIT so here you go therefore it's very
similar to the CM system as well you
shouldn't redistributed under your own
name or
similar and then commit by the way this
was was not like a legal advice or
something so if you want to have like
legal details cons consult your your
lawyer okay installation worked fine
back to module loader and you can see
I've got the language pack installed
there and now we've got the new web
hooks module as well so the first thing
that you usually do is you do a quick
rebuild after installing something so
here we've got a repair and rebuild
then we pull this up here quick repair
and rebuild let's run it one
time and it doesn't complain about
anything but as you can see there's
something for the web hooks as well so
that looks good and now you can see
there's something more which wasn't here
before so we've got web hook
requests so let's see how to work with
this and how we can build this up as I
said you're using the workflow manager
to create this so I'm simply creating a
new
workflow and I want to
dispatch web hook on new website lead so
that means like if I import leads from
from research or whatever I don't want
to do this but if there's a lead coming
in from the website I want to inform the
system right away and do for instance
lead scoring
so want to run it only on Save not in
the
Schuler and then on all records here
well just on new records because updated
they don't need this anymore and I do
not want to do repeated runs because
this is just the initial webbook that
I'm triggering now conditions check out
my video on on Ro flow workflows inside
your CM system because they we going
into more details
but yeah just in case you've got some
more questions here then the lead Source
should be equal to Value website so I
want to do it for only one channel where
my data is coming in and now comes the
magic so I've got just as normally my
different actions now I'm creating a
record and I'm creating a web hook
record a web hook request record to be
specific and now I have to fill a couple
of details and those fields are prec
configured for me and um maybe okay
let's start at the bottom because then
it makes more sense it seems like so if
I go to the very bottom I've got the URL
where I want to send it to and this
should usually be a value you can
precalculate it if necessary just in
case you for instance have have get
parameters inside your url that you need
to transfer then you would pre-calculate
it in your um in your data record but if
you have a general um
URL like this one here with and now
comes the next stuff so we have like a
um with with variables with a payload
and then you would use the key values
here so and then the type request would
be either J or form data usually it's
form data
nowadays Jason is taking over and then
the status we need this one as well in
process or ready to send so here we want
just to trigger it right away so then
you need to config it to switch it to
ready to send then again going to the
very bottom now name this makes sense if
you precalculate it would be nice as
well so in this case you would maybe
have one specific field inside your data
record where you pre-calculate this and
then put the details inside you can use
a name value as well for instance in
this case it doesn't matter too much
because we don't have different web
hooks that we're triggering but if you
do maybe you want to have for the
debuging a bit more in detail on the
list View later on I'll show you how it
looks like and then you would put
something more specific inside here and
here I would just say like new lead wire
webite so and
then let's see what else we can do we
have Modified by name no arot text
description deleted date date created so
these are all the details all the
standard stuff from the um from your
from the CM system so now we have to add
those key value Pairs and for my first
key I would call it last name fairly
similar to
the to the variable inside your CM
system as well and for the field I can
now use the field or the variable itself
the value inside the field and now you
can continue here and building your Json
payload basically for us um maybe okay
the source is always the same we can add
for instance the first name as well just
to show how it works first
name and
then this will be the value number
two and here we've got the first
name so and those both I expect to be in
the in the payload later
on okay let's see whether this worked in
order to test this I need to create a
new
lead and I name it first o1 last o1 and
important we had one condition that is
we want to only trigger this on the
website Source I click on
Save and now I can check two two things
first of all here whether it ran and as
you can see yes process audit this ran
successfully it says completed and now I
can go to my admin area and I go to the
VB hook request and that's a nice thing
now so now you can see we've got um just
like a standard list view of our web
hook requests and there you've got all
the details that we just filled out and
we can see that there is a forbidden for
whichever reason 4 three forbidden okay
something didn't work ah I used the
wrong URL of course I need to use this
one your unique URL so that's what I
need to use and not this one here
because this wasn't just one for
monitoring for displaying so I simply
change my
workflow add it and I want to send it to
this URL
here and now we test it
again in order to do so we create yet
another lead call it first O2 last O2
and again the lead Source should be
website and I click on
Save now my workflow should have been
triggered first two triggered as well
now I go back to the web hook request
and see what I get
now okay that looks a bit better then I
look into my statues here and as you can
see the monitor shows last or2 first or2
so this was correct that means we have
successfully transferred our data via VB
Hook from the CM system into another
system and that's how you can integrate
your other systems that are waiting for
details from your
CRM okay let's quickly recap so we have
figured out that sometimes we need to
integrate our CRM data proactively so
something is happening in the CRM we
want to inform other systems that we
integrate and that works best via web
hooks so we have installed a module for
that we have configured a workflow with
the conditions and with the correct
action and then we've checked on the CRM
side whether it has been created
successfully and we have checked on the
monitoring side so there's a special um
services for receiving web Hooks and
making them visible so you can easily
test them and it seems to be working
fine we successfully have transferred a
payload from the CRM on an action into
another system and finished our demo
integration okay thank you very much for
watching see you next time bye